they're strong bad I want to be a
graduate of crazy go nuts University
just like you please let me know how I
can accomplish this goal after decades
of growth in higher education he says
many New England colleges and
universities are struggling with a sharp
downturn in college enrollment since
2016 more than 20 New England colleges
have closed consolidated merged or were
acquired by another institution let's
not pretend were any more sophisticated
and open-minded than we really are it's
really easy to complain about education
as if you know we just live in this
society that has this this terrible
unfounded prejudice you know you can
only earn people's respect if you have a
master's degree you have a PhD but you
don't but you and me we're sophisticated
open-minded people we we judge one
another by the content of our character
do we this is a straw Taylor Astra
Taylor didn't go to school at all until
age 13 she was briefly in school from
age 13 to age 16 when she dropped out
again her parents philosophically
rejected formal education this is the
part that's really puzzling Taylor has
taught sociology at the University of
Georgia and su NY New Paltz University
it's University Nealon how did she get
that job
she didn't complete high school she
never even got a bachelor's degree in
university what qualifications could
possibly have justified her teaching
sociology at the University of Georgia
and at another new University in New
York State
you think you open-minded about these
things but you're not yep show business
is show business
the main thing she's famous for is as a
filmmaker
she made a documentary film in 2005
another in 2008 and she's now appearing
in the news she's being interviewed by
TV news for 2019 film titled what is
democracy question mark and that's why I
looked into her credentials oh that oh
is this somebody who studied political
science or philosophy what does she know
about philosophy that she's making this
film
sometimes you asked yourself how did
this person get the financial backing to
make a mainstream movie and a movie
that's very unlikely to earn money I
mean this movie is not gonna have
collectible action figures it's not
really gonna be a fumar ah-ah and then
you find out who she's married to
she's married to someone rich and famous
but that's show business
we all accept on some level or to some
extent that movies get made deals get
hatched because people know people and
people have money and connections it's
on to some extent maybe we can accept
that but can we accept that someone who
never even completed high school so we
never went through the exam to the end
of high school someone who never got a
bachelor's degree master's degree and a
PhD taught sociology at university there
is a crisis of Education right now in
2019 and the crisis of education is not
just economic it's not just about
students being bankrupted it's not just
about parents being bankrupted it's not
just about the universities themselves
going out of business and closing down
because they have been bankrupted and
it's not just about the wealthy and
successful universities bankrupting the
rest of society Marygrove College will
close after 92 years in the city of
Detroit the college says due to
financial troubles it can't operate past
the fall semester we interviewed mayor
gross president inside the
library built in 1905 about this
bombshell decision president dr.
Elizabeth burns says the college made
the difficult choice that closed its
doors after 92 years due to decline in
student enrollment and persistent
financial struggles I probably look like
I've been crying because I have the
faculty and staff had seen the
enrollment numbers throughout the spring
and summer so they knew that our numbers
for fall were not looking good they knew
our numbers for summer were not great
and it's just you know it's sort of
inevitable Virginia Western Community
College eliminating positions because of
a decline in enrollment in the 2013-14
academic year there were more than
twelve thousand eight hundred students
but enrollment for last year was only
ten thousand in 1967 twenty percent of
students majored in the humanities or
liberal arts now it's down to five
percent we have focused on a primary
revenue stream that is undergraduate
traditional enrollment we have not been
able to diversify our enrollment so we
rely on a very heavy 18 year old
freshman class to come in and when those
numbers don't come in there's a spiring
effect we're running out of 18 to 24
year olds especially in New England
which has a very flat growth rate the
other thing that's happening to these
institutions is that because of their
cost and because of the dearth of supply
they have to provide higher levels of
financial aid and discounts a 2017 study
from the National Association of college
and university business officers shows
the average tuition is discounted by
nearly 50% for first-time full-time
students politically it's convenient to
pretend that the problem is cost it's
convenient and it's dangerous to pretend
that the problem is cost the problem is
value value is harder to measure value
is harder to fix right now Bernie
Sanders is the first American politician
in living memory
- seriously want to address what's wrong
with American universities but what he's
proposing is the wrong so who shouldn't
it's an irrelevant solution he just
wants to dump money on the problem to
make admission cheaper can still have a
terrible university system that still
bankrupts students and parents and the
nation with cheap tuition or free
tuition and to a larger extent than
people want to admit that already is the
case community colleges across New York
State are working hard to try and stem
the tide of declining enrollment on
their campuses statewide enrollment of
these two-year schools has dropped about
20 percent since 2010 it's not that long
ago honored Agra Community College had
over 13,000 students taking classes at
the school its highest enrollment ever
but since that year 2012 the school has
seen less and less students almost every
single school year last fall it was just
over ninety eight hundred students
enrolled enrollments going down it's
going down here it's going down to four
years it's just there's more competition
for fewer people it's not exclusive to
OCC let's look at Cayuga Community
College it had just over 4,700 students
back in 2010 but last fall the
enrollment was down 20% from that mark
at Jefferson Community College just to
our north the drop 12% in that same time
period for Mohawk Valley Community
College it's an 11 percent decline from
nearly 72 hundred students in 2010 to
just a shade over 6,300 that enrolled
last fall and down the throughway in the
Rochester area Monroe Community College
fell 35% from nearly 19,000 students in
2010 to just over 12,000 last fall and
finally one of the bigger drops 57
percent for Tompkins Cortland Community
College from fall 2010 where they had
5,500 students - last fall were the
enrollment just under 2,400 students
many of my viewers just listen to the
audio and don't watch what's on screen
when my videos are playing if you did
that you missed the
that I added to the video there I had
popping up on screen the price of
tuition at the community colleges that
were mentioned in sequence $4,000 $5,000
when the price is that low it's trivial
relative to the other costs that
devoting years of your life to study
really entail you have to rent a new
apartment you have to buy new furniture
you have to stop living in one place and
start living in another you have to
start a whole new life and become a
whole different person and maybe learn a
new language the type of sacrifice and
commitment being made relative to $5,000
relative to $5,000 plus student aid and
a bank loan spreading the cost out
amortizing the cost over many years when
you're talking about $5,000 tuition cost
is no longer the problem the problem is
value and the problem of the low value
of university education goes much much
deeper and much much further than the
problem of credentialing and the value
of a credential to colleges in New
England have shut down recently for more
are closing their doors this month this
is an alarming number of schools going
out of business affecting thousands of
students new centers Chris Costas shows
us how it's affecting students from
Maine and why experts say this is
happening research firms shows New
England faces a dire forecast in the
next ten years at least 15% fewer
students will go to four-year colleges
fewer students to choose from means
liberal arts schools will start dipping
a term that means admitting students
they normally would not or offering them
more financial aid but that phenomenon
repeats itself until some schools simply
start running out of students and income
and the week schools have no where to
death leaving students like Tara
who just finished her sophomore year at
Green Mountain with big decisions to
make Green Mountain College is not alone
since 2016 in New England alone six
private liberal arts colleges have
announced plans to close another three
are merging
larger universities and one more is not
admitting any new students experts say
this trend is only going to get worse I
mean the population of college young
students literally is gonna fall off of
a cliff many years ago about ten years
ago approximately I spoke to a
university professor by email and I just
want to say I'm very often in a
privileged position partly just because
I'm so old when I touch these bursty
professors they often want to kind of
unburden themselves and talk to me like
I'm their friend or talk to me like I'm
their therapist even tell me about I'll
hard their lives ours professors and I
get a little bit of an insider's view I
used to be married to a university
professor worst years of my life but I I
get a little bit of an insider's view
even though I'm an outsider even though
really I'm an applicant when I talk to
these people so started talking to this
professor and he's complaining to me
about how terrible the university is he
works at it see it's a famous University
in London England and everything about
the university is terrible and the
quality of education is terrible and if
you get the degree it won't lead to any
employment for you there's no future so
don't do it it tells me all this stuff
which is probably probably good advice
oh oh oh and I remember he even
complained specifically but even he is a
professor he wasn't able to use the
library in between semesters you know
it's the details that stick with you you
know even he even resented the way
library privileges were said everything
about this university is bad and you
know it's just too expensive said to
them you think $5,000 $10,000 in tuition
you think that's what matters here let
me tell you something if your university
were offering me a real educational
opportunity I could turn to my parents
and ask them to buy me a
diamond-encrusted pen and a solid gold
desk to sit at and do the research to
get that degree okay and that would be
worth
the cost of a golden desk and a
diamond-encrusted pen could be justified
relative to the value of that education
okay the tuition cost you're talking
about here or trivial now trivial
compared to what trivial compared to
completely ending my life in Cambodia
completely ending my life in Canada
losing my home losing all my furniture
losing all my friends if I had a job
quitting my job I think I did a good job
in time quit my job moving to a new
country renting an apartment in London
England extremely expensive
I'm sorry the cost of rent you know
ridiculous and then living there and
devoting my life to that area of studies
for years it's it's much more like the
type of sacrifice you're thinking about
with joining the army you know even if
you're just gonna join the army for five
years you're gonna think about that
really carefully and the most
fundamental and profound question you
ask yourself is what kind of person am I
gonna be at the end of this what kind of
human being am I gonna become and I've
applied to join the army I thought that
through I'm not gonna come out of this
you know a little bit demented am I
gonna come out of this psychologically
morally ethically a worst person than I
am now or a better one is this gonna
make me stronger this gonna make me weak
is this gonna make me sophisticated is
this gonna make me cosmopolitan is this
gonna make me a philosophically a better
person how am I gonna come out the other
end of this if you really believed in
the value of that education going to
that University and doing that the cost
of a diamond pen and a gold desk would
be nothing relative to that education
you'd receive said to him in the email
the problem is I don't believe in the
value of this education being offered
this University and you don't either
you've just spelled out for me all these
reasons why it's a terrible University
and be a terrible decision as soon as I
said that he wrote back right away
saying oh no no if your parents have the
money you should sign up
you should become a speaker you'd be
grateful this guy was just telling me
that it's terrible
in every possible way and even that it
makes his life
terrible as a professor even he feels
ripped off by the system and as soon as
you say you got the money he's so eager
to rip me off alright there's a lot of
attention being paid to cost and there's
very little attention being paid to
Valiant for a hundred and eighty-five
years this college campus in Vermont was
teeming with students now it sits empty
in January the school announced it would
be closing enrollment was down and it
had to offer ever larger tuition
discounts to attract students while
annual tuition was around $36,000 no one
paid that price
we were actually discounting that about
67% so the average student was really
only paying about $12,000 for tuition in
Vermont three colleges have ceased
operations this year losing roughly a
thousand students a fourth college is on
probation and a fifth one has merged
with another school in Connecticut while
this state has been particularly
hard-hit the closures reflect a wider
trend across the United States according
to Moody's in the next few years the
closure rate for nonprofit US private
colleges will climb to around 15 a year
this was the list of suggested careers
for the most recent university degree I
enrolled in University of Victoria Asian
Studies and - at least two different
professors I've presented this list I
said well what are they thinking
literally not a single one of these jobs
not a single one would I be qualified
for by this degree like every single one
of them is a lie and in many cases these
are jobs that require a different degree
even being offered at the same
University what do you what do you mean
legal professional what do you mean with
a BA in Asian Studies from a Canadian
University I can be a legal professional
really well what kind of legal
professional is that a weight writer
editor publisher those are all jobs I've
had in the past but I have worked as an
editor have worked in the publishing
industry and so on some of these are
negotiated to coach with my bachelor's
degree in Asian Studies I'm gonna be
employees as negotiating some of these I
looked into at that time actually the
research foreign service do you know
what it takes to get into the Canadian
foreign service I do I did the research
I looked into it in a this you are not
qualified for any of these jobs not even
one not even office administrator not
even teacher not policy analyst not
intelligence officer I talked to the
military about that I actually looked
into these jobs tourism analysts there
was a separate University in the same
town giving giving credentials and
tourism completely different line of
work
needs different not a single job and you
know one of the professor's I showed
this to he just started laughing and
laughing and he didn't really tell the
story in a clear way but he told me you
know there was some meeting were like
that a round table meeting where they
had to come up with this list of jobs
and none of them none of them could
really come up with anything so he was
laughing so much I never really got the
story but he was allegedly at the
meeting were a group of professors and
and university administrators had to
come up with the list of jobs I would
supposedly be qualified for by studying
at this university in Asian Studies and
you know what I could forgive it all I
could forgive all that if this
university had just done a decent job in
teaching me the Chinese language if they
had just been decent and competent and
caring and good I would have paid the
all the thousands and thousands of
dollars and devoted years of my life if
they just could have taught me the
language even
everything else was even if the
credential was worthless but they can't
the system is broken in the ways that
matter most it reminds me of the an
interview with an executive from an
airline corporation and the executive
said rewording this and condensing this
everyone says that they want more
legroom everyone says they want more
space between the rows of seats in the
airplane but that is the most expensive
thing the airline can give you the
airline can give you free peanuts
and give you free beer they can give you
free champagne bottles of champagne
would cost them less than increasing the
space between the rows because when they
do that the total number of seats and
the airplane goes down and they lose
money on every single flight for the
rest of that airplanes life once those
seats are installed that's the one
sacrifice that can make you know what
the tragedy is the most expensive thing
the university can give you is exactly
what we're paying them for and that's
tutoring
that's face-to-face quality time between
one student and one professor or maybe
very small groups of two or three
students it's people actually helping
you and teaching you not lecturing you
not one professor at a podium in front
of a crowd of 200 students that's
profitable they can make a lotta money
you got two hundred students in the room
they're all paying thousands of dollars
and just one professor stands there with
a projector and gives this performance
it's a high profit industry okay but one
on one teaching which is what learning
the Chinese language especially really
requires learning the Chinese language
you can't just do studying alone at the
library you need help you need direct
interaction and what you're paying for
the university is exactly the one thing
that the internet can't give you that
the library can't give you that working
alone with computers and textbooks and
pen and paper can't do for you okay it's
exactly that tutelage
[Music]
what is the value of education how would
we measure value apart from price apart
from the earnings potential of the
degree apart from credential ization the
value of the credential in that sense I
don't think anyone today expects a
student to be a refined or well educated
or sophisticated person after they
complete a bachelor's degree I don't
think there's any expectation of that
culture I don't think anyone says oh
well you know you've been to university
so you know these things you're you're
just well educated and center with
anything in general people of all ages
not just young people because people go
to university in their 20s 30s where
people go back to university at any age
partly because it is so expensive people
do not come back from university with a
refined or sophisticated outlook on life
I don't think anyone really feels that
spending five years in university is
gonna change you profoundly for the
better
not even compared to five years in the
military in many ways all that
university now does is give you a
membership card for the library and a
cubicle for you to sit down and to work
alone back and forth from the library
back and forth in the lecture and apart
from the question of whether or not
university graduates are employable it's
an important question its way there
really is a question of is the
University experience making these into
better people at any price I think we
all know right now
that the answer is no remember at crazy
Thomas University the future is you
probably
[Music]